add data integrity verifiable presentation as proof of possession (#66)
openid/OpenID4VCI: openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.md

* `jwt`: A JWT [@!RFC7519] is used as proof of possession. When `proof_type` is `jwt`, a `proof` object MUST include a `jwt` claim containing a JWT defined in (#jwt-proof-type).
* `cwt`: A CWT [@!RFC8392] is used as proof of possession. When `proof_type` is `cwt`, a `proof` object MUST include a `cwt` claim containing a CWT defined in (#cwt-proof-type).

> * `ldp_vp_2.0`: A verifiable presentation signed using data integrity proof as defined in [@VC_DATA_2.0] and [@DI] specs must be used as a proof of possession. When `proof_type` is `ldp_vp_2.0`, a `proof` object MUST include a `ldp_vp` claim containing a [verifiable presentation](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model-2.0/#presentations-0) defined in (#ldp_vp-proof-type).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `ldp_vp_2.0`: A verifiable presentation signed using the data integrity proof defined in [@VC_DATA_2.0], and where the proof of possession MUST be done in accordance with [@DI]. When `proof_type` is set to `ldp_vp_2.0`, the `proof` object MUST include a `ldp_vp` claim containing a [verifiable presentation](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model-2.0/#presentations-0) defined in (#ldp_vp-proof-type).
```

> * `ldp_vp_2.0`: A verifiable presentation signed using the Data Integrity Proof defined in [@VC_DATA_2.0], and where the proof of possession MUST be done in accordance with [@DI]. When `proof_type` is set to `ldp_vp_2.0`, the `proof` object MUST include a `ldp_vp` claim containing a [verifiable presentation](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model-2.0/#presentations-0) defined in (#ldp_vp-proof-type).

Reviewer 2: you link to the V2 data model down here but above your example shows a v1 VC, you may want to update the above example to point to the v2 context and use v2 properties

Reviewer 2: since there has been a rename from `linked data proofs` to `data integrity proofs` should this property be `di_vp_2.0`?

Author: I aligned to the spec, where Data Integrity Proofs are still named with Linked Data Proofs `ldp`. I am open to change that throughout the spec. But for now (the PR) i thought it would be better to stick to the used naming, as it should not touch the general naming imo.

* `jwt`: A JWT [@!RFC7519] is used as proof of possession. When `proof_type` is `jwt`, a `proof` object MUST include a `jwt` claim containing a JWT defined in (#jwt-proof-type).
* `cwt`: A CWT [@!RFC8392] is used as proof of possession. When `proof_type` is `cwt`, a `proof` object MUST include a `cwt` claim containing a CWT defined in (#cwt-proof-type).

> * `ldp_vp`: A verifiable presentation signed using the Data Integrity Proof defined in [@VC_DATA_2.0] or [@VC_DATA], and where the proof of possession MUST be done in accordance with [@DI]. When `proof_type` is set to `ldp_vp`, the `proof` object MUST include a `ldp_vp` claim containing a [verifiable presentation](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model-2.0/#presentations-0) defined in (#ldp_vp-proof-type).

Reviewer 3: sorry, I worry `[@DI]` is not clear enough. Can we please extend to `[@Data_Integrity]` everywhere? thanks.

```suggestion
* `ldp_vp`: A verifiable presentation signed using the Data Integrity Proof defined in [@VC_DATA_2.0] or [@VC_DATA], and where the proof of possession MUST be done in accordance with [@Data_Integrity]. When `proof_type` is set to `ldp_vp`, the `proof` object MUST include a `ldp_vp` claim containing a [verifiable presentation](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model-2.0/#presentations-0) defined in (#ldp_vp-proof-type).
```

Author: https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/66/commits/e6822532a4d7d2bbc1313376ac470fe6348d6a21

> * `ldp_vp`: A verifiable presentation signed using the Data Integrity Proof defined in [@VC_DATA_2.0] or [@VC_DATA], and where the proof of possession MUST be done in accordance with [@DI]. When `proof_type` is set to `ldp_vp`, the `proof` object MUST include a `ldp_vp` claim containing a [verifiable presentation](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model-2.0/#presentations-0) defined in (#ldp_vp-proof-type).

Reviewer 3: on another note, i think it is important to clarify the value of `ldp_vc` claim is an object, since when proof type is jwt or cwt, the value is a string.
```suggestion
* `ldp_vp`: An object representing a W3C Verifiable Presentation signed using the Data Integrity Proof as defined in [@VC_DATA_2.0] or [@VC_DATA], and where the proof of possession MUST be done in accordance with [@DI]. When `proof_type` is set to `ldp_vp`, the `proof` object MUST include a `ldp_vp` claim containing a [W3C Verifiable Presentation](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model-2.0/#presentations-0) defined in (#ldp_vp-proof-type).
```

}
```

#### `ldp_vp_2.0` Key Proof Type {#ldp_vp-proof-type}

> The verifiable presentation MUST contain the following elements:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The verifiable presentation as defined by [@VC_DATA_2.0] signed using Data Integrity that are used as Key Proofs MUST contain the following elements:
```

saying just 'verifiable presentation' unfortunately does not differentiate enough from key proof type JWT

> The verifiable presentation as defined by [@VC_DATA_2.0] signed using Data Integrity that are used as Key Proofs MUST contain the following elements:

Reviewer: Is Data Integrity a defined term? If yes, please capitalize this in the entire PR/Document

Author: Was just one more occurrence

https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/66/commits/93c20c80e547ce70b655ca15d38477b7e7f87200

  * in the presentation itself,

>       * `holder`: OPTIONAL. MUST be equivalent to the DID in the `proof.verificationMethod` property.

Reviewer 2: does not need to be a DID - just the verificationMethod identifier

Author: That's right. I changed that.

  * in the proof body, 
      * `domain`: REQUIRED (string). The value of this claim MUST be the Credential Issuer Identifier.

>       * `challenge`: REQUIRED (string). The value type of this claim MUST be a string, where the value is a server-provided `c_nonce`. MUST be present when the Wallet received server-provided `c_nonce`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * `challenge`: REQUIRED (string). The value type of this claim MUST be a string, where the value is a server-provided `c_nonce`. It MUST be present when the Wallet received server-provided `c_nonce`.
```

> The Credential Issuer MUST validate that the `proof` is actually signed by a key of the holder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Credential Issuer MUST validate that the `proof` is actually signed with a key in possession of the Holder.
```

Below is a non-normative example of a `proof` parameter:

```json
{
  "proof_type": "ldp_vp_2.0",
  "ldp_vp": {

>          "@context": [
>             "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1"
>          ],

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
         "@context": [
             "https://www.w3.org/ns/credentials/v2",
             "https://www.w3.org/ns/credentials/examples/v2"
         ],
```

}
```

#### `ldp_vp` Key Proof Type {#ldp_vp-proof-type}

The verifiable presentation as defined by [@VC_DATA_2.0] or [@VC_DATA] signed using Data Integrity that are used as Key Proofs MUST contain the following elements:

  * in the presentation itself,

>       * `holder`: OPTIONAL. MUST be equivalent to the verificationMethod identifier (e.g. DID) in the `proof.verificationMethod` property.

Reviewer 4: Minor tweak here:

```suggestion
      * `holder`: OPTIONAL. MUST be equivalent to the controller identifier (e.g. DID) for the verificationMethod identified by the `proof.verificationMethod` property.
```

  * in the proof body, 
      * `domain`: REQUIRED (string). The value of this claim MUST be the Credential Issuer Identifier.
      * `challenge`: REQUIRED (string). The value type of this claim MUST be a string, where the value is a server-provided `c_nonce`. It MUST be present when the Wallet received server-provided `c_nonce`.

> The Credential Issuer MUST validate that the `proof` is actually signed with a key in possession of the Holder.

Reviewer 4: I don't know what to do about this language since it's "the right language / commonly used language" when considering other specifications around "proof of possession". However, this is technically incorrect for more or less all specs that use that terminology (so, not specific to this PR).

In short, "proof of possession" is really "proof of use", as the person who provides this proof does not actually need to "possess" the key / its secret material, they only need to be able to generate a signature over what is required (e.g., the VP above and the challenge, provided via `c_nonce` in OID4VCI). Someone who exposes an authz-protected API to use a particular key could grant anyone they wanted access to that API without ever exposing the private key material -- and a generated proof would therefore not be a "proof of possession" for such a user of this API.

I don't know that we want to take on trying to fix this language here in this one spot since every other "proof of possession" spec has a similar problem. But the Credential Issuer is *not capable* of performing the validation based on the language here -- and the same applies to other language used in other specs around proof of possession. If we want this to be the first place that we try to improve this to better communicate actual guarantees and requirements, here's a suggestion:

```suggestion
The Credential Issuer MUST verify that the `proof` was generated by a key associated with its verification method, thereby demonstrating that the Holder was capable of causing this key to be used to generate the proof.
```

Author: Even if it is different in the rest of the spec, i prefer your more precise description here. As you said: The proof of possession is actually a proof of being able to use/access the keys.

But this is rather up to @Sakurann or @tlodderstedt to decide.

Reviewer 3: yes, i would prefer not to make this change in this PR. feel free to raise an issue and address it more systematically if agreed to.

}
```

#### `ldp_vp` Key Proof Type {#ldp_vp-proof-type}

> The verifiable presentation as defined by [@VC_DATA_2.0] or [@VC_DATA] signed using Data Integrity that are used as Key Proofs MUST contain the following elements:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a W3C Verifiable Presentation as defined by [@VC_DATA_2.0] or [@VC_DATA] signed using Data Integrity is used as Key Proof, it MUST contain the following elements:
```

>   * in the presentation itself,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * in the payload of a W3C Verifiable Presentation itself,
```
not sure `payload` is most appropriate, but something along these lines

Author: https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/66/commits/9e31825398e426fb22da4c09c7259e0647dcb677

>       * `holder`: OPTIONAL. MUST be equivalent to the controller identifier (e.g. DID) for the verificationMethod identified by the `proof.verificationMethod` property.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      * `holder`: OPTIONAL. MUST be equivalent to the controller identifier (e.g. DID) for the `verificationMethod` value identified by the `proof.verificationMethod` property.
```

>   * in the proof body, 

Reviewer 3: I am not sure the structure is accurate. proof is part of a w3c verifiable presentation, right? so isn't the following more accurate?
```
When a W3C Verifiable Presentation as defined by [@VC_DATA_2.0] or [@VC_DATA] signed using Data Integrity is used as Key Proof, it MUST contain the following elements:

* holder: ..
* proof: ...
    *  domain
    * challenge
```

Author: https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/66/commits/9e31825398e426fb22da4c09c7259e0647dcb677

      * `domain`: REQUIRED (string). The value of this claim MUST be the Credential Issuer Identifier.

>       * `challenge`: REQUIRED (string). The value type of this claim MUST be a string, where the value is a server-provided `c_nonce`. It MUST be present when the Wallet received server-provided `c_nonce`.

Reviewer 3: Is `challenge` Optional when `c_nonce` is not provided by the issuer? if so, a language like `REQUIRED when ... . MUST NOT be used otherwise.` is probably more appropriate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      * `challenge`: REQUIRED when the Credential Issuer has provided a `c_nonce`. MUST NOT be used otherwise. String, where the value is a server-provided `c_nonce`. It MUST be present when the Wallet received server-provided `c_nonce`.
```

      <organization>ConsenSys</organization>
    </author>
    <author fullname="Brent Zundel">
      <organization>Evernym</organization>
    </author>
    <author fullname="Kyle Den Hartog">
      <organization>MATTR</organization>
    </author>
    <author fullname="David Chadwick">
      <organization>University of Kent</organization>
    </author>
   <date day="15" month="Aug" year="2023"/>
  </front>
</reference>

<reference anchor="Data_Integrity" target="https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-integrity/">
  <front>
    <title>Verifiable Credential Data Integrity 1.0</title>
    <author fullname="Manu Sporny">
      <organization>Digital Bazaar</organization>
    </author>
    <author fullname="Dave Longley">
      <organization>Digital Bazaar</organization>
    </author>
    <author fullname="Greg Bernstein">
      <organization>Invited Expert</organization>
    </author>
    <author fullname="Dmitri Zagidulin">
      <organization>Invited Expert</organization>
    </author>
    <author fullname="Sebastian Crane">
      <organization>Invited Expert</organization>
    </author>
   <date day="31" month="Aug" year="2023"/>
  </front>
</reference>

> <reference anchor="RFC6750" target="https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6750">
>   <front>
>     <title>The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token Usage</title>
>     <author fullname="Dick Hardt">
>       <organization>Independent</organization>
>     </author>
>     <author fullname="Michael B. Jones">
>       <organization>Microsoft</organization>
>     </author>
>    <date month="October" year="2012"/>
>   </front>

Reviewer 3: resolving compiling errors
```suggestion
```

> <reference anchor="RFC6750" target="https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6750">
>   <front>
>     <title>The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token Usage</title>
>     <author fullname="Dick Hardt">
>       <organization>Independent</organization>
>     </author>
>     <author fullname="Michael B. Jones">
>       <organization>Microsoft</organization>
>     </author>
>    <date month="October" year="2012"/>
>   </front>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: @F-Node-Karlsruhe can you please accept this change, which I think will allow for the md to compile? I wanted to merge, but the file was not compiling correctly.

<{{examples/credential_offer_ldp_vc.json}}

> For better suiting the W3C Data Integrity Proof ecosystem the following non-normative example displays a credential request with the proof of posession type `ldp_vp` which uses a verifiable presentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For better suiting the W3C Data Integrity Proof ecosystem the following non-normative example displays a Credential request with the proof of possession type set to `ldp_vp`, using a verifiable presentation.
```

<{{examples/credential_offer_ldp_vc.json}}

For better suiting the W3C Data Integrity Proof ecosystem the following non-normative example displays a Credential request with the proof of possession type set to `ldp_vp`, using a verifiable presentation.

<{{examples/credential_request_ldp_vc_vp.json}}

> 

Reviewer 3: This is a section about credential offer, but example is about credential request. Please put this example in `#### Credential Request {#credential_request_ldp_vc}` section.

Author: https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/66/commits/31051475939b42d2cb2e93611f6030d15522e7b8

<{{examples/credential_request_ldp_vc.json}}

> For better suiting the W3C Data Integrity Proof ecosystem the following non-normative example displays a Credential request with the proof of possession type set to `ldp_vp`, using a verifiable presentation.
> 
> <{{examples/credential_request_ldp_vc_vp.json}}
> 

Reviewer 3: I would suggest removing an example in lines 1956~1958.

```suggestion
The following is a non-normative example of a Credential request with the key proof type `ldp_vp`:

<{{examples/credential_request_ldp_vc_vp.json}}

```
